Add Agent guide for Podman support with docker integration (#11335)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/agent/guide/podman-support-with-docker-integration.md

---
title: Using the Docker integration with Podman container runtime
kind: documentation
---

Podman is a daemonless container engine for developing, managing, and running OCI Containers on your Linux System. Read more on [https://podman.io/][1].

Podman is an alternative to Docker as it provides a Docker-compatible CLI interface and socket. This specificity allows to use the Datadog Agent Docker integration with Podman containers.

## Requirements

* Podman version >= 3.2.0

> * Podman configured to expose its communication socket.

Reviewer: More documentation about this [here](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/building_running_and_managing_containers/assembly_using-the-container-tools-api_using-the-container-tools-cli) in case we want to add a link

Author: ```suggestion
* Podman configured to expose its communication socket. [2]
```

* Datadog Agent version >= 7.30.0

## Agent deployment as a podman container

> To deploy the agent as a podman container, the command to run is very similar to the one used for [docker][2].

Author: ```suggestion
To deploy the agent as a podman container, the command to run is very similar to the one used for [docker][3].
```

> To deploy the Agent as a Podman container, the command to run is very similar to the one used for [docker][3].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To deploy the Agent as a Podman container, the command to run is very similar to the one used for [Docker][3].
```

```
$ podman run -d --name dd-agent \
    -v /run/podman/podman.sock:/run/podman/podman.sock:ro \
    -v /proc/:/host/proc/:ro \
    -v /sys/fs/cgroup/:/host/sys/fs/cgroup:ro \
    -e DD_API_KEY=<API_KEY> \
    -e DOCKER_HOST=unix:///run/podman/podman.sock \

>     --privileged \

Reviewer: I think the need of `--privileged` depends on the OS, maybe we should a note about it?

Author: maybe more about the feature enabled like (system-probe)

    gcr.io/datadoghq/agent:latest
```

The 2 importants differences are:
* `-v /run/podman/podman.sock:/run/podman/podman.sock:ro` to mount the Podman socket instead of the docker socket.
* `-e DOCKER_HOST=unix:///run/podman/podman.sock` to configure the agent communication with the Podman socket.

All the other dockers configuration options should be compatible too.

> ## Know limitations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Known limitations
```

* Container logs aggregation are not yet supported.
* The activation of the Podman socket, can be option in some setup, It might need to enable.

[1]: https://podman.io/

> [2]: agent/docker

Author: ```suggestion
[2]: https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html/building_running_and_managing_containers/assembly_using-the-container-tools-api_using-the-container-tools-cli
[3]: agent/docker
```

---
title: Using the Docker integration with Podman container runtime
kind: documentation
---

Podman is a daemonless container engine for developing, managing, and running OCI Containers on your Linux System. Read more on [https://podman.io/][1].

> Podman is an alternative to Docker as it provides a Docker-compatible CLI interface and socket. This specificity allows to use the Datadog Agent Docker integration with Podman containers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Podman is an alternative to Docker as it provides a Docker-compatible CLI interface and socket. This specificity allows you to use the Datadog Agent Docker integration with Podman containers.
```

## Requirements

* Podman version >= 3.2.0

> * Podman configured to expose its communication socket. [2]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Podman configured to expose its [communication socket][2].
```

* Datadog Agent version >= 7.30.0

## Agent deployment as a podman container

> To deploy the agent as a podman container, the command to run is very similar to the one used for [docker][3].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To deploy the Agent as a Podman container, the command to run is very similar to the one used for [docker][3].
```

```
$ podman run -d --name dd-agent \
    -v /run/podman/podman.sock:/run/podman/podman.sock:ro \
    -v /proc/:/host/proc/:ro \
    -v /sys/fs/cgroup/:/host/sys/fs/cgroup:ro \
    -e DD_API_KEY=<API_KEY> \
    -e DOCKER_HOST=unix:///run/podman/podman.sock \
    --privileged \
    gcr.io/datadoghq/agent:latest
```

> The 2 importants differences are:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The two importants differences are:
```

> * `-v /run/podman/podman.sock:/run/podman/podman.sock:ro` to mount the Podman socket instead of the docker socket.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `-v /run/podman/podman.sock:/run/podman/podman.sock:ro` to mount the Podman socket instead of the Docker socket.
```

> * `-e DOCKER_HOST=unix:///run/podman/podman.sock` to configure the agent communication with the Podman socket.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `-e DOCKER_HOST=unix:///run/podman/podman.sock` to configure the Agent communication with the Podman socket.
```

> All the other dockers configuration options should be compatible too.

Reviewer 2: If we're uncertain of this, we should leave out of docs.

Author: right,
```suggestion
```

## Known limitations

> * Container logs aggregation are not yet supported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Container logs aggregation is not supported.
```

> * The activation of the Podman socket, can be option in some setup, It might need to enable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The activation of the Podman socket can be optional depending on your setup. It may need to be enabled.
```
